With advanced science and technology finding its way into the clinic, industry and governmental organizations, many clinicians, analysts or data scientists have more and more to share with scientists in academia. The aim of the Application Track is **to give a voice to those who work outside of academia**, often having alternative dissemination strategies relative to scientific publishing, which may reduce their visibility, and that of their work, to the academic community. This track is a platform for presenting such (software) applications, which may be untraditional and uncommon at purely academic conferences. The Application Track differs from other applied sessions at ECCB in that it explicitly aims to bridge academia with other application sectors of computational biology and to cross-disseminate both sides. **Submissions to the Application Track are invited from sectors including, among others, pharmaceutical industry, biotech startups, clinics, but also academic groups tightly collaborating with any of these.**

# Abstract

The digital Polymerase Chain Reaction (dPCR) is the more sensitive variant of quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (qPCR). By performing amplification in numerous small-volume compartments, dPCR digitalizes the continuous output (measured fluorescence) into a binary output: positive partitions harboring at least single template molecule and negative partitions, where the amplification reaction did not occur.

Although vendors of dPCR systems often accompany their hardware with specialized data analysis software, their products are usually inflexible and opaque, preventing user from monitoring of exact computational steps. In addition to that, offered software is usually vendor-specific, unable to process data from other systems. To fill the niche for a more universal framework, we developed dpcReport, a flexible software for  reproducible analysis of dPCR data.

The computational heart of the project is dpcR package for R environment. We implemented there most of peer-reviewed dPCR analysis methods and completed them with the novel solutions. The available frameworks calculate the average number of template molecules assuming the Poisson distribution of template over partitions. To allow quality analysis,  we added functionalities verifying the Poisson assumption of input data. We do not only employ statistical tests for count data, but also fit models to various Poisson-related distributions, as Zero-Inflated Poisson.

Array-based dPCR systems performs the amplification reaction on plates. Aside from the usual plate-visualization methods, we added tests for the randomness of spatial distribution of positive droplets. Such analysis is possible for both whole plates and their regions specified by an user.

Since accessing functionalities of the dpcR package requires knowledge of the R, we made them accessible in the form of Graphical User Interface called dpcReport, available as a web-server or a stand-alone application. The provided framework is fully modular, which means that users may freely choose the most appropriate functionalities to personalize their analysis workflow.

All choices are included in the final report preserving results of the analysis along with the control sum of the input data. The reproducibility is further enhanced by expanding the final report  with the R code used to perform whole analysis. In this form, every step may be double-checked or altered providing users with a nearly total control over the created framework. In addition to this, such code may be used as a starting point for a more refined study in the R environment or shared with other users. 

One of the main advantages of dpcReport is the versatility regarding the input data. We planned our software as universal, able to process data provided by machines from different manufacturers. If suitable import functions for a specific machine are not yet implemented, an user may enter on their own values in the interactive spreadsheet, which a part of the dpcReport software. Thanks to that, results from various systems may be compared in the single framework.

Both industry and academia need to constantly improve their standards of data analysis. dpcReport is  a proper solution for both parties providing them with the reproducible, flexible and fully transparent software for analysis of their data. 